I'm going to start with the Abraham
Accords
and they're they're very striking to me
because I saw a number of the first
thing they indicate is that there are
profound divisions within the Arab world
with regard to Israel and how Israel
should be treated and dealt with and the
Abraham Accords formalized in agreement
with a number of Arab states that Israel
should be regarded as a valuable trading
partner now the reason for that as far
as I'm concerned is
threefold the previous approach wasn't
working Israel's proved itself to be an
economic powerhouse it's starting to
it's like a second uh Silicon Valley in
many ways there are extreme economic
advantages to partnering with Israel
trading with Israel and learning from
the Israeli experience and then Israel
is also a formidable
military P Powerhouse and so the
combination of those three things was
sufficient along with some alteration in
the stance on the more forward-looking
Arab side to make agreements of peace
with Israel a reality and we we saw that
happen in the abrahamic cords now my
sense is the abrahamic cords are viewed
with something you might describe as
extreme skepticism and horror even by
the Iranians most fun Mally because they
don't want to see that they're they're
sworn enemies of the United States they
are sworn enemies of Israel they're
sworn enemies of many of the Arab states
that signed the Abraham Accords they are
seriously not happy about this and
they'll do anything to undermine and
destroy it along with Israel and the
United States and so okay so then let's
think about that in relationship to
Palestine so that you're putting forward
something approximating a two-state
solution that's been a solution that's
been proferred in the but the problem
with a two-state solution is it's
predicated on the idea that the parties
involved in establishing the states want
States and they want peace and my sense
of it is that Iran would sacrifice every
single Palestinian in a heartbeat if
they could do serious damage to Israel
and the United States in doing so and
Iran continually funds the agitators in
let's say Hamas and Hezbollah for
example to do nothing but cause Israel
in the United States problems and they
don't give a damn in any way shape or
form about the Palestinians and so I
don't understand at all first of all how
the Israelis can negotiate with the
Palestinians with the Iranians lurking
behind them doing nothing but to cause
causing trouble and funding at every
possible opportunity every way of
breaking down any possibility of Peace
because what do they care whether the
Palestinians make peace with the
Israelis that's just annoying to them
from a foreign policy perspective so I
don't see any Victory I don't see any
potential for solving that problem as
long as Iran is pulling the strings
behind the scenes it's in their best
interest given their stated foreign
policy objectives to keep the
Palestinians and the Israelis at each
other's throats for as long as possible
and if that does in the Palestinian
people oh well you know collateral
damage in the in the bigger game so and
then okay so and I I want to add it now
now so uninformed people in the west
might be thinking that by standing with
the poor oppressed Palestinians they're
what would you say they're they're
showing their solidarity with the
oppressed people of the world right and
but they're they're certainly not allied
with the mainstream of peaceloving Arabs
around the world peaceloving Muslims as
far as I'm concerned and they're
crawling into bed with a state that's
hated not least by its own people like
it's a brutal awful terrible State and
it wants to destroy the United States
and Israel and so all the protesters on
American campuses who are hypothetically
supporting the poor oppressed victimized
Palestinians and I know there's plenty
of complex things to say about that are
really acting as proxy agents for Iran
and the command came out on X Twitter
not very many months ago and basically
said exactly that congratulating the
American protesters for example for
supporting his agenda right I mean it
was it was mind-boggling it didn't seem
to slow down the protests at all okay so
the first question having laid that out
is like is there anything that I'm
missing with regards to the the
positioning of Iran in relationship to
Israel in the United States no I I think
uh you've hit the nail on its head um
about a decade ago I um came up with a a
strategy against Iran and I called it
the octopus uh Terror octopus or octopus
strategy the first thing was to
understand what's going on and then you
can build a strategy what's going on in
the Middle East is about 70% of the
problems in the entire Middle East stem
from the Islamic Republic of Iran um I I
would view it it's a a very radical
regime by the way also incompetent and
corrupt a bit similar to the Soviet
Union of the
80s um but what it does it exports its
ideology and Terror with its arms all
across the Middle East every country it
touches it It ultimately destroys it's
like the anti-as Touch look at Lebanon
look at Syria look at Iraq it's like it
it Yemen so in all these places it it uh
builds a a local proxy some times based
on Shiites that live there but not
always for example Hamas is a Sunni
organization it uh has uh it empowers
them it funds them it provides them
weapons it trains them and ultimately it
also uh commands them to to uh generate
Terror not only against Israel generally
but also against Israel now um if if and
and I'll I'll say straight at at this
point we need to topple the Iranian
regime that's what we need to do and it
will
fall the mistake that Israel has uh made
for the past 30 years and I I was a
soldier I was fighting kisah which is
essentially the fingertip of one of its
tentacles uh the mistake was that we
have expended and and exhausted
ourselves fighting those fingertips of
the octopus and instead of directing our
energy to topple the goddamn head of the
octopus and what I did as prime minister
I gradually Reed I wanted to not have
wars on our borders because that's plain
to their strategy and redirected our
efforts to the head of the octopus
Israel has done a lot of work throughout
the years on the nuclear Dimension but
my point was it's not only about nuclear
let's topple the regime now how do you
do it I'm not talking about uh a allout
War I I look at the Cold War as a a very
good um you
know analogy and ultimately the Soviet
Union fell without War America never
bombed you know what I did when I became
prime minister I the first month of my
on my job I dedicated to deep study of
Iran its Society its economy and what
America did in the 80s to accelerate the
toppling of the Soviet Union it turns
out America did a lot Reagan America uh
empowered oppositions in Eastern Europe
why can't we do that um it it
strengthened the enemies of the Soviet
Union in Afghanistan mujin Etc later it
had unintended consequences but my point
is that we need America and Israel and
the West to apply tremendous diplomatic
uh economic pressures and covert overt
cyber lots of stuff to accelerate the
demise of Iran this regime will fall
because it's much weaker than we think
so to continue the uh and what sort of
support do you think the Iranian
government has in Iran itself I mean my
sense very little it's despised by its
people I'm I'm I'm saying this as a fact
um it it has all the uh plagues of uh um
this sort of regime the the children
Children of the leaders are all corrupt
you know driving in in their uh cars
Lamborghinis whatever while the people
in in many areas of Iran don't even have
good tap water right and it could be a
very rich country it and it was doing
quite well in the 70s huge yeah and and
um so I believe that it's this regime
will topple will fall either but it
could be in 50 years or it could be in
five years and what what I did when I
met uh the bidan administration and and
the folks there outlined um a bunch of
about 30
different vectors of action that we can
take soft action and sort of divided the
job between us and them there's some
areas that we could give you an example
every time there's protests there you
know what the first thing the regime
does it turns off the internet so you
can't communicate why don't we ensure
the that the internet's on with
Technologies like starlink Etc there's
lots of stuff easy stuff cheap stuff
that we can do to accelerate the the the
top Ling all we need to do is help the
Iranian people which are a great people
and unfortunately um my successor
discontinued this uh policy but I think
it's time to to go and so what what sort
of what do you see happening in the west
in the United States with the rest of
the Western countries with regard to
their stance contra Iran and I'd like to
hear about what you think is being done
that's actually effective and also what
you think is being done that isn't
effective or counterproductive by and
large uh uh they're not doing enough uh
and everything
[Music]